>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 23:
THE DEADLINE LOOMS FOR A NUCLEAR
DEAL BETWEEN IRAN AND THE WEST.
WE'LL HAVE A REPORT FROM VIENNA
WHERE NEGOTIATIONS CONTINUE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, NEW
YORK TRIES OUT A NEW PLAN TO
ELIMINATE TRAFFIC FATALITIES.
IT'S WORKED IN SWEDEN.
CAN IT WORK HERE?
AND, ST. LOUIS ON EDGE AS IT
AWAITS A GRAND JURY DECISION
WHETHER TO INDICT THE POLICE
OFFICER WHO KILLED MICHAEL
BROWN.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
IN LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AFTER MONTHS AND MONTHS OF
NEGOTIATIONS, THE DEADLINE FOR
THE WORLD'S MAJOR POWERS TO
STRIKE A PERMANENT DEAL WITH
IRAN TO CURB ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM
IS TOMORROW.
AND THE TWO SIDES ARE STILL SAID
TO BE SOME DISTANCE APART.
IN AN INTERVIEW BROADCAST THIS
MORNING WITH ABC'S GEORGE
STEPHANOPOULOS, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SAID THE INTERIM DEAL REACHED
LAST NOVEMBER HAD SLOWED IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT THE
INTERIM DEAL THAT WE ENTERED
INTO HAS DEFINITELY STOPPED
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM FROM
ADVANCING.
SO IT'S BEEN SUCCESSFUL.
>> BUT A DEAL WOULD BE A
ROLLBACK, WOULDN'T IT?
>> WELL NOW, SO THE QUESTION IS,
CAN WE GET TO A MORE PERMANENT
DEAL?
AND THE GAPS ARE STILL
SIGNIFICANT.
>> Sreenivasan: THE PRESIDENT
ALSO COMMENTED ON HOW A NUCLEAR
DEAL MIGHT CHANGE OVERALL
RELATIONS WITH IRAN.
>> WHAT A DEAL WOULD DO IS TAKE
A BIG PIECE OF BUSINESS OFF THE
TABLE.
AND PERHAPS BEGIN A LONG
PROCESS, NOT JUST BETWEEN IRAN
AND US, BUT THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN IRAN AND THE WORLD, AND
THE REGION BEGINS TO CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'LL HAVE MORE
ABOUT THE NEGOTIATIONS AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
IN AFGHANISTAN, A DEADLY SUICIDE
ATTACK.
AT LEAST 45 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND DOZENS MORE WOUNDED WHEN A
BOMBER TARGETED SPECTATORS AT A
CROWDED VOLLEYBALL TOURNAMENT IN
A PROVINCE OF EASTERN
AFGHANISTAN.
NO ONE IMMEDIATELY CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY.
MEANWHILE, AFGHANISTAN'S
PARLIAMENT GAVE FORMAL APPROVAL
TO A DEAL ALLOWING 10-THOUSAND
AMERICAN TROOPS AND A FEW
THOUSAND OTHER FOREIGN TROOPS TO
STAY IN THE COUNTRY PAST THE END
OF THE YEAR.
FROM NIGERIA, WORD OF A BRUTAL
SNEAK ATTACK BY ISLAMIC
MILITANTS.
THE BBC REPORTS MEMBERS OF BOKO
HARAM TARGETED A GROUP OF FISH
TRADERS NEAR LAKE CHAD THURSDAY,
KILLING 48 PEOPLE WITHOUT FIRING
A SINGLE BULLET.
SOME OF THE VICTIMS' THROATS
WERE REPORTEDLY SLIT.
OTHERS WERE TIED UP AND DROWNED.
TROOPS FROM SURROUNDING
COUNTRIES HAVE BEEN DEPLOYED TO
THE AREA TO PROTECT CIVILIANS.
FURTHER NORTH IN AFRICA, IN
MALI, OFFICIALS SAY SUSPECTED
ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS KIDNAPPED TEN
CHILDREN AND KILLED TWO OTHERS
WHO TRIED TO ESCAPE.
IT'S THE LATEST IN A SERIES OF
ATTACKS BY MILITANTS THERE.
A SPOKESMAN WITH MALI'S MILITARY
DESCRIBED THE KIDNAPPING AS A
FORCED RECRUITMENT OF CHILD
SOLDIERS.
MALI'S GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN IN
PEACE TALKS WITH REBEL GROUPS
AIMED AT ENDING DECADES OF
VIOLENCE IN THE AREA.
BACK HERE IN THE U.S., ONE OF
AMERICA'S BEST KNOWN FORMER
MAYORS HAS DIED.
MARION BARRY SERVED THREE TERMS
AS MAYOR OF WASHINGTON D.C.
BETWEEN 1978 AND 1990 AND WAS
RE-ELECTED IN 1994 DESPITE
HAVING BEEN CAUGHT ON CAMERA
SMOKING CRACK COCAINE DURING AN
UNDERCOVER DRUG STING IN A
WASHINGTON HOTEL ROOM.
HE SERVED SIX MONTHS IN PRISON
ON A MISDEMEANOR DRUG CHARGE.
BEFORE BECOMING MAYOR, BARRY
HELPED ORGANIZE PROTESTS DURING
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT AND
LATER LAUNCHED A JOBS PROGRAM
FOR POOR BLACKS.
>> I SPENT OVER 30 YEARS OF MY
LIFE SINCE 1960 GIVING TO THE
PUBLIC.
>> Sreenivasan: MARION BARRY WAS
78 YEARS OLD.
IN CALIFORNIA, OFFICIALS
ANNOUNCED THEY'RE EXPANDING
COVERAGE OF A CUTTING-EDGE
EARTHQUAKE WARNING SYSTEM TO
INCLUDE SCHOOLS AND FIRE
STATIONS NEXT YEAR.
THE SYSTEM IS LINKED TO GROUND
SENSORS AND CAN GIVE A FEW
SECONDS, OR UP TO A MINUTE'S
WARNING BEFORE AN EARTHQUAKE
STRIKES.
SOME FIRE STATIONS PLAN TO
PROGRAM THEIR GARAGE DOORS TO
OPEN WHEN THE ALERT GOES OFF, TO
KEEP A QUAKE FROM JAMMING THE
DOORS CLOSED.
LEADERS OF AMERICA'S LARGEST
INDIAN RESERVATION HAVE APPROVED
A JUNK FOOD TAX TO FIGHT
OBESITY.
STARTING NEXT YEAR, THE NAVAJO
NATION WILL PUT A TWO PERCENT
SALES TAX ON COOKIES, CHIPS,
SODAS AND OTHER FOOD WITH LITTLE
OR NO NUTRITIONAL VALUE.
ADVOCATES OF THE TAX SAY THE
OBESITY RATE AMONG NAVAJOS IS AS
HIGH AS 60%.
THE TAX HIKE FOLLOWS A FIVE
PERCENT SALES TAX CUT ON FRESH
FRUIT AND VEGETABLES THAT TOOK
EFFECT LAST MONTH.
AND FINALLY, A FISH TALE
RESEARCHERS OFF MONTEREY HAVE
CAPTURED PICTURES OF THE
ANGLERFISH; A CREATURE YOU OR
YOUR CHILDREN HAVE PROBABLY ONLY
SEEN IN THE MOVIE "FINDING
NEMO."
THIS IS THE REAL DEAL, CALLED A
"BLACK SEA-DEVIL."
IT WAS CAPTURED ON VIDEO IN IT'S
NATURAL HABITAT APPARENTLY FOR
THE FIRST TIME EVER LAST WEEK,
ALMOST 2,000 FEET BELOW THE
OCEAN SURFACE.
DESPITE ITS SCARY APPEARANCE
IT'S ACTUALLY THREE-AND-A-HALF
INCHES LONG.
JUST LIKE IN THE MOVIES, THE
ANGLERFISH USES A FLASHLIGHT-
LIKE APPENDAGE TO LURE SMALLER
FISH INTO ITS MOUTH.
>> Sreenivasan: AS WE SAID
EARLIER, THAT DEADLINE FOR A
NUCLEAR DEAL WITH IRAN IS
TOMORROW.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE STATE OF THE
NEGOTIATIONS, WE ARE JOINED NOW
BY MY COLLEAGUE, WILLIAM
BRANGHAM, WHO REPORTED EARLIER
THIS YEAR FROM IRAN, AND BY
DAVID SANGER OF THE NEW YORK
TIMES.
HE'S IN VIENNA COVERING THE
TALKS AND JOINS US NOW VIA
SKYPE.
>> THANKS HARI.
DAVID THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE PRESIDENT THIS MORNING SAID
THERE ARE STILL SOME SIGNIFICANT
GAPS IN THE NEGOTIATIONS.
WHAT CAN WE LIKELY EXPECT IN THE
NEXT DAY AS THE NEGOTIATIONS
WRAP UP?
>> WELL I THINK YOU CAN EXPECT
THAT THESE NEGOTIATIONS ARE NOT
GOING TO WRAP UP.
THAT WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN HERE
IS THAT YOU'LL GET AN EXTENSION
THAT MAY WELL BE WRAPPED IN SOME
KIND OF DESCRIPTION OF THE
PROGRESS THEY'VE MADE SO FAR.
YOU KNOW WILLIAM, THEY HAVE VERY
EXTENSIVE DRAFTS AND ANNEXES OF
AN AGREEMENT BUT THEY DON'T HAVE
POLITICAL DECISIONS FROM THE
SUPREME LEADER IN IRAN OR FROM
PRESIDENT OBAMA ON SOME MAJORS
ISSUES OF DISPUTE INCLUDING HOW
MANY CENTRIFUGES IRAN COULD BE
LEFT WITH, THE FUEL STOCK PILES,
WHICH ONE WOULD BE SENT TO
RUSSIA AND THE QUESTIONS OF
SANCTIONS.
AND ALL OF THESE REQUIRE
DECISIONS THAT NOBODY'S BEEN
WILLING TO MAKE EVEN THOUGH THIS
NEGOTIATION HAS BEEN GOING ON
FOR A YEAR.
>> HOW DO YOU FORESEE US EVER
GETTING TO AN AGREEMENT?
>> WELL I'M NOT SURE THAT WE
EVER WILL GET TO AN ENTIRE
AGREEMENT.
I KNOW THAT PEOPLE ON BOTH SIDES
HOPE THEY WILL BUT IT'S ALSO
POSSIBLE THAT TO THE UNITED
STATES THIS COULD BE A
MANAGEABLE ISSUE IF YOU KEEP
ROLLING IT FORWARD, TO SOME
DEGREE.
AS THE IRANIANS THAT'S NOT
COMPLETELY THE CASE BECAUSE IT'S
THEIR OIL THAT IS BEING KEPT OFF
THE MARKET AND THEY WANT TO HAVE
THE NORMAL BANKING RELATIONSHIPS
AND THE NORMAL RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE WEST.
I THINK THAT'S THE REASON THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S TEAM IS
CALCULATING THE TIME IS PROBABLY
ON THEIR SIDE.
BUT THAT COULD BACK FIRE AS WELL
IF PEOPLE IN IRAN BEGIN TO PICK
UP A NARRATIVE THAT IN THE END
THE UNITED STATES WON'T TAKE YES
FOR AN ANSWER OR WON'T EVEN TAKE
A PARTIAL YES FOR AN ANSWER.
>> THE WEST'S CONCERN HERE
OBVIOUSLY IS ABOUT IRAN'S
ABILITY TO BUILD A NUCLEAR BOMB.
WHAT IN THE NEGOTIATIONS RIGHT
NOW ARE THE STUMBLING BLOCKS
ABOUT WHAT THE IRANIANS ARE
ACTUALLY DOING IN THAT REGARD?
>> WELL, THE CONCERN IS THAT
SINCE IRAN SAYS IT HAS NO
INTENTION OF BUILDING A WEAPON,
YOU HAVE TO DESIGN A SYSTEM THAT
WOULD LENGTHEN WHAT'S CALLED
BREAKOUT TIME.
THE AMOUNT OF TIME IT WOULD TAKE
TO PRODUCE ONE WEAPON'S WORTH OF
FUEL.
NOW RIGHT KNEW THAT'S DOWN TO A
FEW MONTHS THE WAY THEY'VE
CONSTRUCTED THIS AND THE WHAT
THE UNITED STATES AND THE
EUROPEAN ALLIES RUSSIA AND CHINA
WANT TO DO IS TO EXTEND THAT SO
THAT ANYBODY IN IRAN EVEN IN A
DIFFERENT REGIME COULD RAISE FOR
A BOMB, YOU WOULD HAVE TIME TO
ACT DIPLOMATICALLY OR
MILITARILY.
>> KEEPING THE IRANIANS AT THE
NEGOTIATING TABLE, CERTAINLY
WHEN I WAS IN IRAN EARLIER THIS
YEAR I SAW HOW THE SANCTION HE
WERE SQUEEZING THE SANCTIONS
WERE SQUEEZING THE ECONOMY.
>> ACUTELY THE SANCTIONS HAVE TO
COME OFF BUT IT'S THE SUPREME
LEADER WHO IS MAKING THE FINAL
DECISION HERE.
AND HE'S GOT A DIFFERENT
CONSTITUENCY, THE IRANIAN
REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS AND
OTHERS, WHO HAVE INVESTED VERY
HEAVILY IN THE NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
SO HE'S UNDER SOME VERY
COMPETING INFLUENCES HERE ON THE
QUESTION OF WHETHER IT'S BETTER
TO LIVE WITH THE SANCTIONS AND
KEEP A BIGGER PART OF THE
NUCLEAR PROGRAM OR GET RID OF
THE SANCTIONS, VIEW IN
THE IRANIAN MILITARY VIEW IS TOO
HIGH.
IF THE TALKS BEAR NO
FRUIT, IS SOMETHING OTHER ON THE
TABLE?
NO ONE HAS EVER EXPRESSED THAT
THE MILITARY SOLUTION IS MORE
THAN A TEMPORARY SOLUTION.
YOU COULD BOMB THE FACILITIES
AND CERTAINLY SET THEM BACK A
YEAR OR TWO YEARS OR MAYBE EVEN
THREE YEARS.
BUT YOU COULD REDOUBLE IRAN'S
DETERMINATION TO REBUILD THOSE
FACILITIES DEEPER IN THE GROUND
WHERE YOU COULD NOT GET AT THEM.
>> DAVID SANGER, FROM THE NEW
YORK TIMES, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> GOOD TO BE WITH YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW TO OUR
SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
TONIGHT, WE EXAMINE A NEW PLAN
TO DRAMATICALLY REDUCE ONE OF
THE LEADING CAUSES OF DEATH IN
THE U.S., ESPECIALLY AMONG YOUNG
PEOPLE.
WE'RE NOT TALKING ABOUT DRUGS OR
SHOOTINGS, BUT ABOUT TRAFFIC
COLLISIONS.
THEY KILL MORE THAN 33,000
PEOPLE IN THIS COUNTRY EACH
YEAR, INCLUDING MORE THAN 4,700
PEDESTRIANS.
NOW OFFICIALS HERE IN NEW YORK
CITY AND IN SEVERAL OTHER STATES
HAVE BORROWED FROM A PLAN THAT'S
BEEN IN EFFECT IN PARTS OF
EUROPE FOR SOME TIME.
TONIGHT, WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
COSTS WHEN THE SYSTEM DOESN'T
WORK, AND WHAT'S BEING DONE TO
MAKE OUR STREETS SAFER.
>> Reporter: A REMARKABLE AMOUNT
OF THE TIME, ALL THESE BUSES AND
TAXIS, CARS AND BICYCLES,
JOGGERS AND WALKERS, MANAGE TO
COEXIST ON THE STREETS OF NEW
YORK, BUT WHEN SOMETHING GOES
WRONG, IT CAN BE HORRIBLE.
LEAVING FAMILIES DEVASTATED.
LISTEN TO WHAT HAPPENED IN FRONT
OF DANA LERNER'S HOME LAST
JANUARY.
>> I GOT A CALL FROM OUR
DOORMAN.
I DIDN'T KNOW WHAT THE HELL I
WAS GONNA FIND.
SO I RAN DOWN THERE.
AND I SAW MY HUSBAND, YOU KNOW,
JUST SCREAMING, LYING IN THE--
LYING IN THE ROAD.
BUT HE WAS-- I COULD SEE HE
WASN'T HORRIBLY HURT.
AND I LOOKED OVER AND MY SON
WAS, YOU KNOW, LYING THERE.
>> Reporter: LERNER'S NINE-YEAR-
OLD SON COOPER HAD BEEN WALKING
ACROSS THE STREET, HAND-IN-HAND
WITH HIS FATHER.
THEY WERE IN THE CROSSWALK WITH
THE LIGHT ON THEIR SIDE, WHEN A
CAB TURNING LEFT HIT HER HUSBAND
AND THEIR SON.
>> HE WAS LYING COMPLETELY
STILL.
THERE WAS BLOOD COMING OF HIS
EARS.
AND I'M A REAL OPTIMIST.
AND I, KEPT SAYING... AND MY
HUSBAND... KEPT SAYING, "IT'S
BAD.
IT'S BAD.
I WAS LIKE, "NO, HE'S BE OKAY.
WE'LL BE OKAY."
AND, AND HE WASN'T.
MONTHS EARLIER, WHILE RUNNING
FOR MAYOR OF NEW YORK, BILL DE
BLASIO HAD MADE TRAFFIC SAFETY A
TOP PRIORITY.
JUST WEEKS AFTER BEING
INAUGURATED AND FOLLOWING THE
DEATHS OF SEVERAL PEDESTRIANS,
INCLUDING COOPER, THE MAYOR, A
FATHER OF TWO HIMSELF, LAUNCHED
WHAT WAS KNOWN AS VISION ZERO AT
A PRESS CONFERENCE SURROUNDED BY
PARENTS WHO HAD LOST LOVED ONES
TO TRAFFIC COLLISIONS.
>> WHEN I READ ABOUT THESE
HORRIBLE MOMENTS, WHEN I READ
ABOUT THESE TRAGEDIES, AND THIS
LOSS OF LIFE IT'S VERY PERSONAL
FOR ME, BECAUSE I CAN SEE IT
THROUGH THE EYES THROUGH MY
FELLOW PARENTS.
AND OF COURSE EVERY ONE OF US
THINKS WHAT IF THAT WAS MY
CHILD.
AND THE GOAL IS LITERALLY TO
REDUCE FATALITIES ON OUR
ROADWAYS TO ZERO.
>> Reporter: THE MAYOR SAID
ZERO, THAT INCLUDES ALL TRAFFIC
DEATHS.
178 PEDESTRIANS DIED IN THE CITY
LAST YEAR.
NOW GIVEN, NEW YORK CITY STREETS
ARE DRAMATICALLY SAFER THAN THEY
WERE 25-YEARS-AGO, BUT TRAFFIC
FATALITIES, INCLUDING MOTORISTS
AND PEDESTRIANS, HAVE STARTED TO
TICK BACK UP SINCE A LOW IN
2011.
>> SOME PEOPLE HERE THE PHRASE
VISION ZERO AND THEY ASK WHAT'S
REALLY POSSIBLE.
THEY ASK WHETHER THESE ARE NEW
IDEAS, SPECULATIVE IDEAS.
BUT WE WANT TO EMPHASIZE TODAY
IS THAT THESE ARE TRIED AND
TESTED IDEAS.
IDEAS THAT WORK.
THEY HAVE BEEN WORKING IN OTHER
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, THEY HAVE
BEEN WORKING AROUND THE WORLD.
MOST NOTABLY IN SWEDEN.
>> SO IT'S GOING FROM VERY SAFE
TO SOMETHING MUCH, MUCH SAFER.
>> Reporter: MATS BELIN HELPED
DESIGN THE VISION ZERO APPROACH
IN SWEDEN.
WE CAUGHT UP WITH HIM WHEN HE
WAS IN NEW YORK FOR A SYMPOSIUM
ON THE SWEDISH INNOVATION.
BELIN SAYS THE INITIATIVE STARTS
WITH THE IDEA THAT IT'S NOT
ACCEPTABLE FOR A SINGLE PERSON
TO DIE ON THE ROADS AND THAT
ENGINEERING, NOT ENFORCEMENT, IS
WHERE THE EMPHASIS SHOULD BE.
>> IN VISION ZERO, WE PUT THE
MAJOR... THE... THE FIRST
RESPONSIBILITY ON THE SYSTEM
DESIGNER. AND, OF COURSE... THE
ROAD USERS... STILL HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY.
BUT IT COME.. GOES BACK TO...
THE SYSTEM DESIGNER.
BELIN POINTS TO THE EXAMPLE OF A
BUSY INTERSECTION WITHOUT A
TRAFFIC LIGHT.
THE TRADITIONAL APPROACH IS TO
PUT ONE UP. BUT BELIN SAYS
THAT'S FLAWED.
COLLISIONS WOULD GO DOWN
DRAMATICALLY, BUT THOSE THAT
STILL OCCUR WOULD LIKELY BE AT
HIGH SPEEDS AND SEVERE.
BELIN SAYS THE BETTER APPROACH
WOULD BE TO CREATE A ROTARY OR
ROUNDABOUT, FORCING DRIVERS TO
SLOW DOWN.
>> THE CRASHES WILL PROBABLY
INCREASE.
BECAUSE IT BE-- BECOME A LITTLE
BIT MORE COMPLICATED FOR-- FOR--
FOR THE TRAFFIC.
BUT THOSE THAT WILL HAPPEN WILL
BE LESS SEVERE.
AND ACTUALLY THE-- THE
ROUNDABOUT MIGHT BE THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIFE AND
DEATH.
>> Reporter: AS PART OF VISION
ZERO IN SWEDEN, THE COUNTRY
ADDED THOUSANDS OF MILES OF
DIVIDERS, ADDED BREATHALYZERS IN
MANY CARS, AND RUNS ONE OF THE
LARGEST SPEED CAMERA SYSTEMS IN
THE WORLD, NOT TO MAKE MONEY,
BELIN SAYS, BUT TO SLOW DRIVERS
DOWN.
SWEDEN ROLLED OUT ITS VISION IN
1,997 WHEN SEVEN PEOPLE PER
100,000 DIED IN TRAFFIC,
IN TEN YEARS, SWEDEN CUT ITS
RATE IN HALF, AND TODAY THE
UNITED STATE'S RATE IS MORE THAN
THREE TIMES AS HIGH
AND OTHER PEOPLE OUTSIDE NEW
YORK HAVE NOTICED SWEDEN'S
SUCCESS, MINNESOTA, UTAH, AND
WASHINGTON STATE HAVE ALL
IMPLEMENTED VISION ZERO-STYLE
PROGRAMS AND SEEN REDUCTIONS IN
FATALITIES FALL FASTER THAN IN
STATES WITHOUT THEM.
AND MANY OTHER CITIES, INCLUDING
LOS ANGELES, SAN FRANCISCO, AND
CHICAGO, HAVE JOINED NEW YORK IN
RECENTLY IMPLEMENTING VISION
ZERO-STYLE INITIATIVES.
HERE IN NEW YORK, THE PLAN CALLS
FOR INCREASED PUBLIC EDUCATION,
VISION ZERO STREET TEAMS MADE UP
OF POLICE AND TRANSPORTATION
WORKERS HAVE RAISED AWARENESS
HANDING OUT PAMPHLETS AND PSAs
HAVE BEEN PRODUCED ABOUT THE
IMPACT OF RECKLESS DRIVING:
AND LIKE SWEDEN, NEW YORK'S
VISION ZERO CALLED FOR MORE
CHANGES IN INFRASTRUCTURE,
BEYOND THOSE MADE IN THE
PREVIOUS ADMINISTRATION WHICH
HAD ALREADY SEEN DECREASES IN
FATALITIES.
THE CITY HAS PUT ASIDE MORE THAT
$40 MILLION DOLLARS FOR THE PLAN
THIS FISCAL YEAR.
AS PART OF VISION ZERO, THE
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
PLEDGED TO MAKE SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS AT 50 LOCATIONS
EACH YEAR, SOME OF THOSE CHANGES
ARE ALREADY HERE, THE
INTERSECTION WHERE COOPER WAS
STRUCK AND KILLED.
THE DOT INSTALLED PEDESTRIAN
ISLANDS, ADDED TIME TO THE WALK
SIGNALS, AND TOOK OUT THE
PARKING SPACES ON THE CORNER TO
INCREASE VISIBILITY.
THE PLAN ALSO CALLED FOR CHANGES
IN LAWS, INCLUDING ONE THAT
WOULD CHANGE HOW TAXI DRIVERS
WHO KILL OR SERIOUSLY INJURE
SOMEONE ARE TREATED.
LIKE THE ONE THAT STRUCK COOPER.
>> AFTER A FEW DAYS, WHEN I WAS
SORT OF GETTING A LITTLE BIT
MORE, YOU KNOW, SORT OF WITS
ABOUT ME, I THOUGHT, "WHERE'S
THE GUY THAT KILLED HIM?"
"WHAT HAPPENED TO THIS GUY?"
AND THEN I FOUND OUT THAT YOU
CAN KILL SOMEONE IN NEW YORK
CITY AND YOU DON'T GET CHARGED
WITH ANYTHING.
SO IN OTHER WORDS, THIS CAB
DRIVER LITERALLY COULD'VE KILLED
MY SON, STAYED ON HIS SHIFT AND
GONE ON, MADE-- TAKEN ANOTHER
FARE.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW IS THAT
POSSIBLE?
>> IT WAS POSSIBLE THEN BECAUSE
THERE WAS ABSOLUTELY NO LAW THAT
SAID THAT THAT DIDN'T HAVE TO
HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: LERNER AND OTHER
ACTIVISTS HELPED PUSH FOR NEW
YORK CITY TO ADOPT PROPOSED
LEGISLATION.
IN APRIL LERNER TESTIFIED BEFORE
THE CITY COUNCIL IN FAVOR OF A
BILL DUBBED COOPER'S LAW.
IT WOULD SUSPEND LICENSES OF
TAXI DRIVERS PENDING AN
INVESTIGATION.
AND LERNER WAS LOOKING ON AS THE
MAYOR SIGNED IT INTO LAW, ALONG
WITH 10 OTHER BILLS RELATED TO
TRAFFIC SAFETY, IN JUNE.
AND JUST THIS MONTH, THE NEWEST
LAW RELATED TO VISION ZERO WENT
INTO EFFECT.
NEW YORK CITY RECENTLY CHANGED
ITS SPEED LIMIT FROM 30 TO 25
MILES PER HOUR UNLESS OTHERWISE
POSTED. THAT MIGHT NOT SEEM LIKE
MUCH, BUT STUDIES SHOW THAT THAT
TINY DECREASE ACTUALLY DOUBLES
THE CHANCE OF SURVIVAL IF A
PEDESTRIAN IS HIT BY A CAR.
BUT ASKING NEW YORKERS TO SLOW
DOWN ISN'T WITHOUT DETRACTORS.
DARKUAH ADIGUN-BOMANI IS A NEW
YORK CITY CAB DRIVER, AS A
MOTHER OF 3 SHE SYMPATHIZES WITH
THE DESIRE FOR SAFE STREETS, BUT
SAYS THAT FOR CAB DRIVERS LIKE
HER, BEING FORCED TO SLOW DOWN
LITERALLY COSTS HER MONEY.
DARKUAH ADIGUN-BOMANI:
THE MORE YOU PICK-UP THE MORE
MONEY YOU MAKE, SO WHEN IT'S
PRETTY BUSY, YOU JUST CAN'T MOVE
WITH A 25 MILES PER HOUR, YOU
JUST CAN'T MOVE.
AND ADIGUN-BOMANI SAYS THAT HER
CUSTOMERS - FAMOUSLY IMPATIENT
NEW YORKERS - WANT HER TO STEP
ON IT.
>> THEY PRETTY MUCH, PICK IT UP,
PICK IT UP BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
THE CUSTOMERS ARE USED TO, YOU
KNOW, SPEEDING UP, MAKE UP THIS
LIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT IF SHE DOES,
A LEAD FOOT MIGHT MEAN A BETTER
CHANCE OF GETTING A TICKET.
THAT'S BECAUSE IN NEW YORK,
UNLIKE IN SWEDEN, VISION ZERO
DOES INCLUDE STEPPING UP
ENFORCEMENT, FOR INSTANCE MORE
AGGRESSIVE TICKETING BY POLICE.
THE NUMBER OF TICKETS ISSUED FOR
SPEEDING AND FAILING TO YIELD
THE RIGHT OF WAY TO PEDESTRIANS,
IS UP 50% COMPARED TO LAST YEAR.
IT'S BEEN TEN MONTHS SINCE
COOPER DIED AT THIS INTERSECTION
AND MAYOR DE BLASIO ANNOUNCED
VISION ZERO. FROM JANUARY
THROUGH THE END OF OCTOBER HERE
IN NEW YORK CITY, 209 PEOPLE
HAVE DIED IN TRAFFIC CRASHES,
INCLUDING 101 PEDESTRIANS.
A DECREASE FROM LAST YEAR.
BUT STILL A LONG WAYS FROM
ZERO.
>> Sreenivasan: DO YOU AGREE
WITH THE 'VISION ZERO' APPROACH
TO COMBAT VEHICLE-RELATED
FATALITIES?
JOIN THE DEBATE ON OUR FACEBOOK
PAGE.
VISIT facebook.com/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: MANY PEOPLE
EXPECTED THAT THE GRAND JURY
CONSIDERING THE FATAL SHOOTING
OF MICHAEL BROWN WOULD HAVE
DECIDED BY NOW WHETHER OR NOT TO
INDICT THE POLICE OFFICER WHO
KILLED HIM.
BUT ITS DELIBERATIONS WILL
CONTINUE TOMORROW AND MAYBE
BEYOND.
THE NEWSHOUR'S STEPHEN FEE IS IN
FERGUSON WHERE TENSION IS
BUILDING IN ANTICIPATION OF THE
GRAND JURY'S FINDING.
>> ON THE GRAND JURY TO COME
BACK.
>> ALONGSIDE WEST FLORRIAN
AVENUE IN FERGUSON THIS WEEKEND,
ENGAGED IN AN IMPROMPTU
DIALOGUE.
>> WHETHER THEY WERE GOOD OR BAD
PEOPLE OR NOT, THE JOB IS TO
HELP PEOPLE.
>> PAUL MOHAMMED AND HIS WIFE
FOUNDED THE COMMUNITY GROUP,
PEACE KEEPER ST. LOUIS.
SHORTLY AFTER THE SHOOTING OF
BLACK TEENAGER MICHAEL BROWN
THIS AUGUST.
>> THE UNREST IN AUGUST, WE
THOUGHT ABOVE OR BETWEEN THE
POLICE FROM KEEPING ANY MORE OF
OUR YOUNG PEOPLE FROM GETTING
HURT OR GETTING KILLED.
>> ARE YOU FEELING MORE TANKS?
>> ANXIETY, STRESS, VERY HIGH.
THE TENSION IS RISING BY THE
MOMENT.
IN ANTICIPATION OF THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE GRAND JURY.
>> ON SATURDAY, WITH SPECULATION
THAT A GRAND JURY DECISION COULD
BE IMMINENT, AUTHORITIES PUT
BARRICADES AROUND THE COURTHOUSE
IN NEARBY CLAYTON, MISSOURI.
WHERE THE GRAND JURY HAS BEEN
MEETING TO CONSIDER CHARGES
AGAINST DARREN WILSON.
THIS IS A COMMUNITY THAT'S
HOLDING ITS BREATH WAIT BE TO
SEE WHAT KIND OF CHARGES COULD
BE BROUGHT AGAINST THAT POLICE
OFFICER AND WHAT THE COMMUNITY'S
REACTION WILL BE.
>> THE REGION THAT'S BEEN IN
MOURNING, WITH A FAMILY THAT'S
LOST THEIR SON AND A REGION
THAT'S AWARE OF THE TENSION THAT
THIS INCIDENT HAS CREATED AND IF
YOU AWAIT THE GRAND JURY'S
DECISION EVERYBODY'S TENSE,
EVERYBODY'S TALKING ABOUT THIS.
>> SO FAR, NO WORD.
BUT THAT'S NOT TO SAY POLICE AND
PROTESTERS AREN'T PREPARED.
LAST WEEK, MISSOURI GOVERNOR JAY
NIXON DECLARED A STATE OF
EMERGENCY IN ANTICIPATION OF
UNREST.
AND STATE PATROL DISPATCHED 100
MORE OFFICERS.
>> IF SOME PROTESTERS TURN
VIOLENT OR THREATEN OR
THREATENING, POLICE WILL RESPOND
TO KEEP EVERYONE SAFE.
>> IN THE PAST DAYS GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS AND COMMUNITY GROUPS
HAVE MET TO SET GROUND RULES FOR
ANY MAJOR DEMONSTRATIONS WITH
THE PRIORITY OF PROTECTING
LIVES.
STILL, YOUTH PROTEST ORGANIZER
ASHLEY GATES IS CONCERNED ABOUT
LAW ENFORCEMENT MOBILIZATION.
>> MADE IT CLEAR THAT WHILE WE
ARE ORGANIZING TO CREATE
SYSTEMIC CHANGE, THEY ARE
ORGANIZING TO DEFEND AGAINST
US.
>> NO MATTER WHAT DECISION THE
GRAND JURY MAKES:
>> WE HAVE BEEN TRAINING PEOPLE
HOW TO PEACEFULLY PROTEST.
>> AND PASTOR ROBERT WHITE OF
THE PEACE OF MIND CHURCH, SAY
THE PUBLIC SHOULD FOCUS ON HOW
YOUNG MEN ARE TREATED BY THE
POLICE.
>> THIS IS NOT JUST ABOUT
MICHAEL BROWN, ABOUT EVERY
AFRICA AMERICAN THROUGHOUT THE
COMMUNITY, EVER MINORITY.
>> WHERE MICHAEL BROWN WAS SHOT
THIS SUMMER AND AS THE
THANKSGIVING HOLIDAY APPROACHES
THEY ANXIOUSLY AWAIT WHATEVER
COMES NEXT.
>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WEEK, THE
UNITED STATES RETURNED HUNDREDS
OF ANCIENT ARTIFACTS TO
THAILAND.
AMERICAN OFFICIALS SAY THE ITEMS
HAD BEEN LOOTED DECADES AGO FROM
A 5,000 YEAR OLD UNESCO WORLD
HERITAGE ARCHAEOLOGICAL SITE.
9THE COLLECTION OF BRONZE
OBJECTS, POTTERY, STONE TOOLS,
BEADS, AND SANDSTONE MOLDS WAS
RETURNED DURING A RECENT
CEREMONY AT THAILAND'S NATIONAL
MUSEUM IN BANGKOK.
THE ARTIFACTS WERE FOUND IN
2008, DURING A RAID ON THE
BOWERS MUSEUM IN SANTA ANA,
CALIFORNIA, AFTER A FIVE-YEAR
UNDERCOVER FEDERAL
INVESTIGATION. THE MUSEUM AGREED
TO RETURN THE ITEMS IN EXCHANGE
FOR AMNESTY FOR ITS STAFF.
BUT WHEN U.S. CHARGÉ D'AFFAIRES
W. PATRICK MURPHY HANDED OVER
THE ARTIFACTS TO THAILAND, HE
ASSURED REPORTERS THAT THE
PEOPLE ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN
ANTIQUITY SMUGGLING WILL FACE
CRIMINAL CHARGES.
>> THE THEFT, THE FRAUDULENT
TRADE OF CULTURAL ARTIFACTS,
THEREFORE, ERODES NATIONAL
IDENTITY.
ALL OF OUR COUNTRIES ARE SUBJECT
TO THIS INTERNATIONAL CRIME AND
IT IS OUR PRIORITY TO END THIS
KIND OF CRIME.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS NOT THE
FIRST TIME A REPUTABLE MUSEUM
HAS RETURNED STOLEN OBJECTS FROM
ITS COLLECTION.
JUST LAST YEAR, NEW YORK'S
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART
RETURNED TWO LARGE STATUES TO
CAMBODIA, AFTER CAMBODIAN
OFFICIALS PROVIDED EVIDENCE THAT
THE ARTIFACTS WERE LOOTED FROM
AN ANCIENT TEMPLE IN THAT
COUNTRY.
AND IN 2007 THE J. PAUL GETTY
MUSEUM NEAR MALIBU, CALIFORNIA,
RETURNED 40 ARTIFACTS TO ITALY,
INCLUDING A LARGE STATUE THOUGHT
TO BE A LIKENESS OF THE GODDESS
APHRODITE THAT THE MUSEUM
PURCHASED FOR $18 MILLION IN
1988.
IDENTIFYING MUSEUM OBJECTS THAT
WERE STOLEN, AND THEN RETURNING
THEM TO THEIR COUNTRIES OF
ORIGIN REMAINS A DIFFICULT
PROCESS.
THE ARCHEOLOGICAL INSTITUTE OF
AMERICA ESTIMATES 85-90% OF
ARTIFACTS ON THE MARKET DO NOT
HAVE DOCUMENTED PROVENANCE.
MORE NEWS BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU
TONIGHT.
A SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL
WAS QUOTED AS SAYING THE U.S.
SUPPORTS AN EXTENSION OF NUCLEAR
NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN.
THE DEADLINE FOR A PERMANENT
DEAL IS TOMORROW.
ISRAEL'S CABINET APPROVED A
DRAFT MEASURE THAT WOULD CODIFY
THE NATION AS A JEWISH STATE.
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU SAID
THE BILL IS A RESPONSE TO
COUNTRIES THAT QUESTION ISRAEL'S
RIGHT TO EXIST.
THE KNESSET WILL TAKE IT UP.
GAS PRICES HAVE PLUNGED TO THEIR
LOWEST LEVEL IN FOUR YEARS.
THE AVERAGE PRICE OF A GALLON
OF GASOLINE IS $2.84.
JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN, GOOD
NIGHT.